writing-practice/README.md, before:

# Japanese Writing Practice App

A Streamlit application for practicing Japanese writing with automated grading and feedback using OCR technology.

## Project Structure

```
writing-practice/
├── .streamlit/
│   └── config.toml         # Streamlit configuration
├── src/
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── setup_state.py    # Initial state with sentence generation
│   │   ├── practice_state.py # Practice state with image upload
│   │   └── review_state.py   # Review state with grading
│   ├── services/
│   │   ├── sentence_generator.py # Generates practice sentences
│   │   └── grading_system.py    # Handles OCR and grading
│   └── main.py             # Main Streamlit application
├── venv/                   # Python virtual environment
├── requirements.txt        # Project dependencies
├── Tech-Spec.md           # Technical specifications
└── README.md              # This file
```

## Setup Progress 

1. **Initial Setup**
   - Created project directory structure
   - Set up Python virtual environment
   - Created requirements.txt with necessary dependencies:
     - streamlit==1.32.0
     - Pillow==10.2.0
     - manga-ocr==0.1.14
     - openai==1.12.0
     - requests==2.31.0

2. **Directory Organization**
   - Implemented proper directory structure
   - Removed duplicate directories and unused files
   - Moved Streamlit configuration to correct location

3. **Component Implementation**
   - Created setup_state component for sentence generation
   - Implemented practice_state for image upload
   - Added review_state for grading and feedback
   - Integrated state management in main.py

4. **Services Implementation**
   - Implemented sentence generator with mock data
   - Set up grading system with MangaOCR integration
   - Prepared for future OpenAI API integration

## Current Issues

1. OpenSSL Warning:
   ```
   urllib3 v2 only supports OpenSSL 1.1.1+, currently using LibreSSL 2.8.3
   ```

2. Torch Warning:
   ```
   Examining the path of torch.classes raised: Tried to instantiate class '__path__._path'
   ```

## Setup Instructions

1. Create and activate virtual environment:
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Run the application:
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/writing-practice
   source venv/bin/activate
   venv/bin/streamlit run src/main.py
   ```

## Application Flow

1. **Setup State**
   - User sees "Generate Sentence" button
   - Clicking generates a practice sentence
   - Transitions to Practice State

2. **Practice State**
   - Displays the English sentence to practice
   - Provides image upload for handwritten Japanese
   - Submit button for grading

3. **Review State**
   - Shows original sentence
   - Displays OCR transcription
   - Shows translation and grade
   - Option to generate next question

## New Features (March 30, 2025)

1. **Word Practice Mode**
   - Added word practice functionality
   - Implemented word-specific components:
     - word_setup_state.py
     - word_practice_state.py
     - word_review_state.py
   - Added word_data.py service for word management
   - Created word_main.py entry point

2. **Enhanced Documentation**
   - Added Tech-Spec.md with detailed technical specifications
   - Updated project structure to include word practice components
   - Added setup instructions for both sentence and word practice modes

3. **Usage Instructions**
   For sentence practice:
   ```bash
   streamlit run src/main.py
   ```
   
   For word practice:
   ```bash
   streamlit run src/word_main.py
   ```

Commit message:

docs: include missing project planning step in Setup Progress

writing-practice/README.md, after:

# Japanese Writing Practice App

A Streamlit application for practicing Japanese writing with automated grading and feedback using OCR technology.

## Project Structure

```
writing-practice/
├── .streamlit/
│   └── config.toml         # Streamlit configuration
├── src/
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── setup_state.py    # Initial state with sentence generation
│   │   ├── practice_state.py # Practice state with image upload
│   │   └── review_state.py   # Review state with grading
│   ├── services/
│   │   ├── sentence_generator.py # Generates practice sentences
│   │   └── grading_system.py    # Handles OCR and grading
│   └── main.py             # Main Streamlit application
├── venv/                   # Python virtual environment
├── requirements.txt        # Project dependencies
├── Tech-Spec.md           # Technical specifications
└── README.md              # This file
```

## Setup Progress 

1. **Project Planning**
   - Created Tech-Spec.md as the foundation for development
   - Defined application architecture and components
   - Outlined grading system and data flow
   - Specified technical requirements and dependencies

2. **Initial Setup**
   - Created project directory structure based on Tech-Spec
   - Set up Python virtual environment
   - Created requirements.txt with necessary dependencies:
     - streamlit==1.32.0
     - Pillow==10.2.0
     - manga-ocr==0.1.14
     - openai==1.12.0
     - requests==2.31.0

3. **Directory Organization**
   - Implemented proper directory structure
   - Removed duplicate directories and unused files
   - Moved Streamlit configuration to correct location

4. **Component Implementation**
   - Created setup_state component for sentence generation
   - Implemented practice_state for image upload
   - Added review_state for grading and feedback
   - Integrated state management in main.py

5. **Services Implementation**
   - Implemented sentence generator with mock data
   - Set up grading system with MangaOCR integration
   - Prepared for future OpenAI API integration

## Current Issues

1. OpenSSL Warning:
   ```
   urllib3 v2 only supports OpenSSL 1.1.1+, currently using LibreSSL 2.8.3
   ```

2. Torch Warning:
   ```
   Examining the path of torch.classes raised: Tried to instantiate class '__path__._path'
   ```

## Setup Instructions

1. Create and activate virtual environment:
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Run the application:
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/writing-practice
   source venv/bin/activate
   venv/bin/streamlit run src/main.py
   ```

## Application Flow

1. **Setup State**
   - User sees "Generate Sentence" button
   - Clicking generates a practice sentence
   - Transitions to Practice State

2. **Practice State**
   - Displays the English sentence to practice
   - Provides image upload for handwritten Japanese
   - Submit button for grading

3. **Review State**
   - Shows original sentence
   - Displays OCR transcription
   - Shows translation and grade
   - Option to generate next question

## New Features (March 30, 2025)

1. **Word Practice Mode**
   - Added word practice functionality
   - Implemented word-specific components:
     - word_setup_state.py
     - word_practice_state.py
     - word_review_state.py
   - Added word_data.py service for word management
   - Created word_main.py entry point

2. **Documentation Updates**
   - Updated project structure to include word practice components
   - Added setup instructions for both sentence and word practice modes

3. **Usage Instructions**
   For sentence practice:
   ```bash
   streamlit run src/main.py
   ```
   
   For word practice:
   ```bash
   streamlit run src/word_main.py
   ```
